---
layout: post
title: "Fizzbuzz isn't a coding test"
date_published: "9/29/2012" 
author: Kapil
---

I was shocked when I first read Jeff Atwood's post about [programmers who can't program](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2007/02/why-cant-programmers-program.html). Those who've formally studied computer science should be able to write if-then statements, right?

The reason programmers fail Fizzbuzz is because Fizzbuzz isn't a "coding" test. It's an analytical thinking test. And these "programmers" don't know how to think analytically.

In fact, it's pretty easy to separate the coding part from the analytical thinking part. Ask some smart business analysts with no coding experience to [solve FizzBuzz in Excel](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AhFDbIGnRB-LdE94YmhaLU43T1lCRW1IWmhEV1ZJblE). All should be able to do it. 

Those interviewing for entry-level business analyst positions aren't expected to be fluent in Excel. Excel is just a tool used to get the job done. They are, however, expected to be bale to solve business problems, and are usually tested on that skill with case interviews and such.

It isn't fair to conclude that these entry-level programmers don't know how to code. They'd probably be able to translate pseudocode into a working program \[1\]. But the real issue is that they don't know how to solve problems analytically, which is far more valuable. That's the reason Fizzbuzz is an important test.

As an employer, the lesson here might be to stop looking for people who know how to write code, and instead find people who already have the higher-order thinking down and teach them.

#### Notes

\[1\] I very well might be wrong here.